Have you ever felt sheer, unadulterated, highly concentrated and liquified form of pure angst? If
you have, then you perhaps might relate to this, otherwise this might feel like a stream of
incoherence pouring out of a manic soul. Either ways, I wouldn't mind, for my bubbling cauldron of
thoughts is currently overflowing with this mad urge to let it out, and I have known no better way
to cleanse than to bleed it out either in ink or smashing down hard upon my keyboard, hardly
bothering whether whatever comes out of it sounds logical. Rather, the overarching motive here is to
get the load off my conscience, whatever be the cause of it. And anger at oneself, or at something
else is one such heavyweight that can hang around inside for a while, accumulating one drip at a
time until we reach a cutoff limit. Once we explode, we are someone else, something else,
metamorphosizing into an ugly alter ego of ours.

I prefer to believe that irritability, most of the times, is an inbred emotion and may not need an
external cause. But if we do find an external entity to prosecute, its mostly our blatant attempt to
project the emotion outwards, rather than look inside for the actual reasons which are mostly deep
nested. Ok, I am not talking about times when somebody smacks you in the face. Those are times
humans are supposed to get angry, unless if you are Gandhi. But there are times when there is
this inner discontent,that keeps brewing, piling up layers until it finally blows up in the presence
of some sort of catalyst, say something said by your friend, turning everything into an awful mess.
And only when you are done pouring out your raw angst upon this catalyst, i.e your poor friend, you
realize how stupid you have been. But by then, the deed is done. You have already exposed your
filthy alter ego, and however much you apologize sometimes things may go beyond repair.

I have a similar feeling inside right now, and it is myself that I feel like prosecuting when I am
in such a state. Worse are the times (this is one such instance) when it breeds out of pure
irrationality, since I can feel everything wrong about it yet I am not able to wash it off easily. I
would have a strong urge to fling inanimate objects around, my pens often coming worse off when I am
in such a fit. I would want to smash my glasses on to the floor, pull my hair or even smash the
screen of my uninsured laptop. Such is the fury inside that my whole being becomes overwhelmed by
this one emotion, sometimes even forgetting how it all came to be in the first place. I would say
rude things to people, often hurtful, only to realize how childish I have been. I would then chide
myself for doing that, getting angrier in the process. Hence, I get caught in this vicous circle
where anything that I do out of anger breeds more raw anger and blinds me off any sort of logic and
rationality. And only way it ends for me is the anger transforming to the shape of pure regret, which
then takes me further down the sinkhole, manifesting inner insecurities, the weight of which forever
pulls me back.

When I am writing this, I am looking straight into the eyes of my devilish alter ego, and all I see
behind those blood red eyes is a reflection of grave insufficiency. Insufficiency of reason, of
course. Insufficiency of the soul. Insufficiency of clarity. To summarize I notice sheer
cluelessness about anything and everything inside those eyes. It's as if my existence had been
stripped bare naked and all that remains of it is now is this seething animal who is possessed by
this one raw emotion winding up into a state of unpredictability, from where the things could only
go downhill. Come to think of it, it does not look different from when we are under pure adrenalin
rush with just one objective in mind. Surely the adrenalin rush has its own benefits when put into
good use, but how would this mindless, soul-less alter ego of mine come to any sort of help to me?

This is the question that baffled me today, when I looked into those hollow red eyes. What good can
come off this and is it even possible to resist this malignant state from gradually wearing down
whatever good that is left inside? And the only answer that came back was - 'You need to write it
off!'. Perhaps, if I let those blemishes from my soul, flow into one of my stories or my characters,
then I would have found a sink. A sink, that can channel this angst out of my veins, thus helping
the real me put up some sort of resistance to the corrosion. If somebody has to take a hit, why
can't it be the manifestations of my inner imagination? Why not let my characters sometimes suffer
the bane so as to temporarily channel the scourge out of my self? I know it sounds unfair to them,
but then they are the only ones who would understand and not be mystified at why I need to do so,
for we do share the same strands of consciousness. 

I need not become angry and turn into Hulk, when I can pass on those gamma ray induced mutations to
my characters in the story. Neat isn't it? I can be Bruce Banner all day, channeling all my
vexations through words and if something like The Hulk does come about, he will just be a figment of
imagination, incapable of inducing any significant damage on myself. 

(I need to rush off now as my stomach suddenly is growling in anger, and there is no other smart way
to pacify it.)
