Mud

As a writer and lover of fiction, I somehow have steered clear of writing travel journals all this
while, for I find my voice terribly ineqipped for such form of writing and have often given up
during such endeavours. Yet travelling to places far and beyond remains the kindest stimulator to
the creative muscles in my brain. Travelling has always felt rewarding and I don't wish to delve
into the cliches of wanderlust but overall the year 2017 was a good year in terms of ticking some
items off my travel bucket list and one of the most memorable ones was my time spent in the Lahaul
and Spiti valley of Himachal Pradesh.

This place had always been on my mind like a star gleaming from beyond the horizon catching your eye
with its beauty and poignance yet seemingly elusive. After having read countless accounts of travel
to this place I did finally bring myself to plan a ten day trip to the valley, and did all the
online research I could before setting off on the trip. Mind you, this was was not one of those
places wherein you could book your taxi in advance or do a hotel booking over the internet, rather
it is one of those offbeat destinations people often talk about. Also given that this was a solo
trip, information off the internet, divulged by the travel bloggers, would definitely have come in
handy.

Even as I write this, after procrastinating for so many months, I sense a pleasurable chill running
through my body as I look back on those days. It seems only appropriate that I spare some time from
my not so busy schedule to finally talk about my visit to the magical valley of Lahaul and Spiti. I
am glad that I have finally decided to write this town, since even if my memories of the trip fade
under the sands of time despite the countless pictures taken, I would always be able to come back to
this to relive those expriences once again for real. Because in the world where millions of pictures
are clicked and lost, I have always been able to cling on to words better.

Now that I have started off on my mission to narrate my experiences of the trip to the best of my
ability, I would like to take the road less travelled as suggested by Mr. Frost and write about the
days as they come to my mind, and hence it is my trip to the surreal village of Mud, located in the
Pin valley, that comes to the fore and I could even say my trip to Mud could be the poster-boy of my
trip in some sense, since during this time I could get the real feeling of walking down empty roads,
stopping at occasional villages, peeking into the lives of people from afar and then moving on often
with the just the trees, river and the mountains by my side.

My stay at the quaint little guest house, which was perched on the side of the mountain and flanked
by the magnificent view of the the Dhankhar Monastery on one side and the endless Spiti river and
the bare mountain range on the other side, was coming to an end after having seen some of the finest
sunsets while sipping the Tibetan butter tea in an easy chair. I was packed and ready to set off in
the direction of Mud after having made all the necessary enquiries. There were a bunch of people
leaving towards Kaza in taxis from the monastery, and after having a struck a deal with them for
dropping me off at Schichilling (I had to google the correct spelling). Schichilling is where the
Spiti valley diverged from the Pin valley, and was enroute to Kaza. I set off in a taxi with two
other Israeli girls, who were on a solo trip through India after having finished their mandatory
serving in the army. The taxi engine kept stopping initially for every hundred metres but the driver
was able to fix that eventually after knitting some of the electrical wires together.

The taxi dropped us at Schichilling in 15 minutes, and we saw the bare metal bridge wreathed in
bright colored Tibetan prayer flags, which is quite a common sight in these parts, which led to an
empty road diverging away from the onward route to Kaza. The bridge led upto this grand arch, which
majestically welcomed us with a greeting of 'Welcome to Pin Valley'.
